readme.md, before:

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/toddself/dr-sax.png)](http://travis-ci.org/toddself/dr-sax)

# Dr. SAX

Dr. SAX is an HTML to markdown converter that uses a [SAX-based parser](http://github.com/fb55/htmlparser2) to convert HTML to markdown. (SAX to MD.  SAX MD? DR SAX? GET IT?!)

![your project name is bad and you should feel bad](http://i.imgur.com/qgxiLco.png)

It presents both a standard (non-streaming) and transform stream interface for converting HTML to markdown.

## Installing

`npm install --save dr-sax`

## Usage

_Non-Streaming_

```javascript
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax();
> drsax.write('<p>Wow, this is an <b>awesome</b> HTML parser dude! You should <a href="http://yahoo.com">submit it to yahoo!</a>');
"\n\nWow, this is an **awesome** HTML parser dude! You should [submit it to yahoo!](http://yahoo.com)\n\n"
```

_Streaming_

```javascript
> var transform = require('dr-sax').stream();
> fs.createReadStream('input.html').pipe(transform).pipe(fs.createWriteStream('output.md'));
```

_Stripping out non-Markdown tags_

```javascript
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax({stripTags: true});
> drsax.write('<span class="txt-center"><b>centered text</b></span>');
"**centered text**"
> var drsax2 = new DrSax();
> drsax2.write('<span class="txt-center"><b>centered text</b></span>');
"<span class=\"txt-center\">**centered text**</span>"
```

_Supply your own markdown dialect_

```javascript
> var dialect = {b: {open: '__', close: '__'}};
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax({dialect: dialect});
> drsax.write('<p>Wow, this is an <b>awesome</b> HTML parser dude! You should <a href="http://yahoo.com">submit it to yahoo!</a>');
"\n\nWow, this is an __awesome__ HTML parser dude! You should [submit it to yahoo!](http://yahoo.com)\n\n"
```

## Why?
There are a few node.js based html to markdown converters available, why do we need another?

1. [html-md](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md) and [upndown](https://github.com/netgusto/upndown) are both jsdom based for node.js. JSDOM is slow, and [has some memory issues when used in a loop](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md/pull/43)
2. Others use regular expressions to parse your HTML. Why hello Zalgo! Nice to meet you today!

## Benchmarking & Compliance

Benchmarks are available in [Dr. Sax Benchmarks](https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax-benchmarks).

Here are the results for:

```
"dependencies": {
  "benchmark": "~1.0.0",
  "dr-sax": "~1.0.7",
  "hammerdown": "0.0.18",
  "html-md": "~3.0.2",
  "html2markdown": "~1.1.0",
  "pdc": "~0.1.2",
  "to-markdown": "0.0.2",
  "unmarked": "0.0.12",
  "upndown": "~0.0.7"
}
```

On a 2014 quad-core 3.5gHz Core i7 iMac running node 0.10.28

(pdc is using Pandoc 1.12.3)

```
> dr-sax-benchmarks@0.0.0 start /Users/todd/src/dr-sax-benchmarks
> node index

dr sax x 5,838 ops/sec ±1.90% (92 runs sampled)
htmlmd x 228 ops/sec ±4.27% (75 runs sampled)
upndown x 216 ops/sec ±6.05% (83 runs sampled)
to-markdown x 6,696 ops/sec ±5.03% (90 runs sampled)
html2markdown x 2,400 ops/sec ±5.08% (87 runs sampled)
unmarked:
hammerdown x 932 ops/sec ±6.56% (74 runs sampled)
pdc x 24.07 ops/sec ±17.90% (66 runs sampled)
Fastest is to-markdown
```

The fastest is *not* Dr. Sax, but rather [`to-markdown`](https://github.com/domchristie/to-markdown). Alas, `to-markdown` does not handle malformed HTML well as it is based on a regular-expression type parser:

```
> var drsax = new (require('dr-sax'))();
> var bs = '<b>this is a totally<i>Broken</b> string that I want parsed';
> drsax.write(bs);

'**this is a totally_Broken_** string that I want parsed'

> var tomd = require('to-markdown').toMarkdown;
> tomd(bs);

'**this is a totally<i>Broken** string that I want parsed'
```

Both of the DOM based parsers ([html-md](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md) and [upndown](https://github.com/netgusto/upndown/)) handle that string identically to how Dr. Sax handles it.  

[unmarked](https://github.com/tcr/unmarked) does not seem to work correctly however:

```
> var unmarked = require('unmarked');
undefined
> unmarked.parse('<b>test</b>');
'test'
```

## Round Trip Conversion

All attempts are made to ensure that HTML -> MD -> HTML conversion is as loss-less as possible.  There are some caveats and quirks being that Markdown is a whitespace significant language and HTML is not. 

The primary munging occurs if your input is pretty-printed HTML.

```html
<h1>Why use <a href="https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/">Dr. Sax</a></h1>
<ol>
  <li>Becuase you like puns!</li>
  <li>Becuase you need speed</li>
</ol>
<strong>This is going to be bold!</strong>
<h2>Kittens</h2>Look at these funny little furry things!
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h_hKJCe_-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

This will convert to the following markdown

```markdown
# Why use [Dr. Sax](https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/)

1. Becuase you like puns!
1. Becuase you need speed


**This is going to be bold!**

## Kittens

Look at these funny little furry things!<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h<em>hKJCe</em>-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
```

But, will convert back to the following HTML (using [marked](https://github.com/chjj/marked))

```html
<h1 id="why-use-dr-sax-https-github-com-toddself-dr-sax-">Why use <a href="https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/">Dr. Sax</a></h1>
<ol>
<li>Becuase you like puns!</li>
<li>Becuase you need speed</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>This is going to be bold!</strong></p>
<h2 id="kittens">Kittens</h2>
<p>Look at these funny little furry things!<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h_hKJCe_-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></p>
```

The `tab` characters from the `<ol>` are missing, and the `<iframe>` and `<strong>` tags are wrapped in paragraphs.  This is a result of how Markdown's dialect handles block-level elements like the `<ol>` and `<h2>` tags in the page.

There is a specially formatted test to verify round-trip results in the test suite for compliance.

## Dialects
Custom dialects can be supplied to the parser. You can get a general concept of how they're defined by looking at [dialect.js](dialect.js).

A dialect is an object with the top-level keys being the HTML tags you're trying to convert. Each of these points to an object with an `open` and `close` key, which is the markdown token to insert instead of the `open`ing HTML tag, and the one use instead of the `close`ing tag. You can omit a tag by just using an empty string. If the tag is indentable (like `<blockquote>`), set that flag to `true`. If the tag is a block-level element, set that flag to `true` as well so that the correct line-spacing will be entered.  If the tag requires attributes to be parsed, create a new key called `attrs` which is an object explaining how to deal with the attributes for that tag.

**e.g.**
The anchor tag is `<a href="url">captured text</a>`, but in markdown you need `[captured text](url)`.

This is defined as:

```javascript
{
  a: {
    open: '',
    close: '',
    attrs: {
      text: {
        open: '[',
        close: ']'
      },
      href: {
        open: '(',
        close: ')'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The nodes in `attrs` are processed in order -- so since the "text" (which is anything in the `captured text` section) needs to come first, we list it first. And since the text needs to be wrapped in `[` and `]`, we note those as the open and close.  Same goes for the `href` tag. Since that completes the entire tag, we actually leave the `open` and `close` for the `<a>` itself empty since it requires no additional tokens.

## Testing

```
git clone git@github.com:toddself/dr-sax
cd dr-sax
npm install
npm test
```

## License
Dr. Sax is ©2014 Todd Kennedy. Available for use under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

adding test to verify standard markdown compliance

readme.md, after:

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/toddself/dr-sax.png)](http://travis-ci.org/toddself/dr-sax)

# Dr. SAX

Dr. SAX is an HTML to markdown converter that uses a [SAX-based parser](http://github.com/fb55/htmlparser2) to convert HTML to markdown. (SAX to MD.  SAX MD? DR SAX? GET IT?!)

![your project name is bad and you should feel bad](http://i.imgur.com/qgxiLco.png)

It presents both a standard (non-streaming) and transform stream interface for converting HTML to markdown.

## Compliance
This library is [<span style="text-decoration: strikethrough">Standard</span> Common Markdown](https://github.com/jgm/stmd) compliant. The only difference between the input HTML and the output HTML is the lack of additional `\n` characters around block level elements.  Since HTML is whitespace agnostic, these do not present a material difference in the rendering of the HTML by a user-agent.  You can test markdown compliance against both [marked](https://github.com/chjj/marked) and stmd by running the test suite.

## Installing

`npm install --save dr-sax`

## Usage

_Non-Streaming_

```javascript
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax();
> drsax.write('<p>Wow, this is an <b>awesome</b> HTML parser dude! You should <a href="http://yahoo.com">submit it to yahoo!</a>');
"\n\nWow, this is an **awesome** HTML parser dude! You should [submit it to yahoo!](http://yahoo.com)\n\n"
```

_Streaming_

```javascript
> var transform = require('dr-sax').stream();
> fs.createReadStream('input.html').pipe(transform).pipe(fs.createWriteStream('output.md'));
```

_Stripping out non-Markdown tags_

```javascript
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax({stripTags: true});
> drsax.write('<span class="txt-center"><b>centered text</b></span>');
"**centered text**"
> var drsax2 = new DrSax();
> drsax2.write('<span class="txt-center"><b>centered text</b></span>');
"<span class=\"txt-center\">**centered text**</span>"
```

_Supply your own markdown dialect_

```javascript
> var dialect = {b: {open: '__', close: '__'}};
> var DrSax = require('dr-sax');
> var drsax = new DrSax({dialect: dialect});
> drsax.write('<p>Wow, this is an <b>awesome</b> HTML parser dude! You should <a href="http://yahoo.com">submit it to yahoo!</a>');
"\n\nWow, this is an __awesome__ HTML parser dude! You should [submit it to yahoo!](http://yahoo.com)\n\n"
```

## Why?
There are a few node.js based html to markdown converters available, why do we need another?

1. [html-md](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md) and [upndown](https://github.com/netgusto/upndown) are both jsdom based for node.js. JSDOM is slow, and [has some memory issues when used in a loop](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md/pull/43)
2. Others use regular expressions to parse your HTML. Why hello Zalgo! Nice to meet you today!

## Benchmarking & Compliance

Benchmarks are available in [Dr. Sax Benchmarks](https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax-benchmarks).

Here are the results for:

```
"dependencies": {
  "benchmark": "~1.0.0",
  "dr-sax": "~1.0.7",
  "hammerdown": "0.0.18",
  "html-md": "~3.0.2",
  "html2markdown": "~1.1.0",
  "pdc": "~0.1.2",
  "to-markdown": "0.0.2",
  "unmarked": "0.0.12",
  "upndown": "~0.0.7"
}
```

On a 2014 quad-core 3.5gHz Core i7 iMac running node 0.10.28

(pdc is using Pandoc 1.12.3)

```
> dr-sax-benchmarks@0.0.0 start /Users/todd/src/dr-sax-benchmarks
> node index

dr sax x 5,838 ops/sec ±1.90% (92 runs sampled)
htmlmd x 228 ops/sec ±4.27% (75 runs sampled)
upndown x 216 ops/sec ±6.05% (83 runs sampled)
to-markdown x 6,696 ops/sec ±5.03% (90 runs sampled)
html2markdown x 2,400 ops/sec ±5.08% (87 runs sampled)
unmarked:
hammerdown x 932 ops/sec ±6.56% (74 runs sampled)
pdc x 24.07 ops/sec ±17.90% (66 runs sampled)
Fastest is to-markdown
```

The fastest is *not* Dr. Sax, but rather [`to-markdown`](https://github.com/domchristie/to-markdown). Alas, `to-markdown` does not handle malformed HTML well as it is based on a regular-expression type parser:

```
> var drsax = new (require('dr-sax'))();
> var bs = '<b>this is a totally<i>Broken</b> string that I want parsed';
> drsax.write(bs);

'**this is a totally_Broken_** string that I want parsed'

> var tomd = require('to-markdown').toMarkdown;
> tomd(bs);

'**this is a totally<i>Broken** string that I want parsed'
```

Both of the DOM based parsers ([html-md](https://github.com/neocotic/html.md) and [upndown](https://github.com/netgusto/upndown/)) handle that string identically to how Dr. Sax handles it.

[unmarked](https://github.com/tcr/unmarked) does not seem to work correctly however:

```
> var unmarked = require('unmarked');
undefined
> unmarked.parse('<b>test</b>');
'test'
```

## Round Trip Conversion

All attempts are made to ensure that HTML -> MD -> HTML conversion is as loss-less as possible.  There are some caveats and quirks being that Markdown is a whitespace significant language and HTML is not.

The primary munging occurs if your input is pretty-printed HTML.

```html
<h1>Why use <a href="https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/">Dr. Sax</a></h1>
<ol>
  <li>Becuase you like puns!</li>
  <li>Becuase you need speed</li>
</ol>
<strong>This is going to be bold!</strong>
<h2>Kittens</h2>Look at these funny little furry things!
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h_hKJCe_-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

This will convert to the following markdown

```markdown
# Why use [Dr. Sax](https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/)

1. Becuase you like puns!
1. Becuase you need speed


**This is going to be bold!**

## Kittens

Look at these funny little furry things!<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h<em>hKJCe</em>-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
```

But, will convert back to the following HTML (using [marked](https://github.com/chjj/marked))

```html
<h1 id="why-use-dr-sax-https-github-com-toddself-dr-sax-">Why use <a href="https://github.com/toddself/dr-sax/">Dr. Sax</a></h1>
<ol>
<li>Becuase you like puns!</li>
<li>Becuase you need speed</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>This is going to be bold!</strong></p>
<h2 id="kittens">Kittens</h2>
<p>Look at these funny little furry things!<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/h_hKJCe_-sI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></p>
```

The `tab` characters from the `<ol>` are missing, and the `<iframe>` and `<strong>` tags are wrapped in paragraphs.  This is a result of how Markdown's dialect handles block-level elements like the `<ol>` and `<h2>` tags in the page.

There is a specially formatted test to verify round-trip results in the test suite for compliance.

## Dialects
Custom dialects can be supplied to the parser. You can get a general concept of how they're defined by looking at [dialect.js](dialect.js).

A dialect is an object with the top-level keys being the HTML tags you're trying to convert. Each of these points to an object with an `open` and `close` key, which is the markdown token to insert instead of the `open`ing HTML tag, and the one use instead of the `close`ing tag. You can omit a tag by just using an empty string. If the tag is indentable (like `<blockquote>`), set that flag to `true`. If the tag is a block-level element, set that flag to `true` as well so that the correct line-spacing will be entered.  If the tag requires attributes to be parsed, create a new key called `attrs` which is an object explaining how to deal with the attributes for that tag.

**e.g.**
The anchor tag is `<a href="url">captured text</a>`, but in markdown you need `[captured text](url)`.

This is defined as:

```javascript
{
  a: {
    open: '',
    close: '',
    attrs: {
      text: {
        open: '[',
        close: ']'
      },
      href: {
        open: '(',
        close: ')'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The nodes in `attrs` are processed in order -- so since the "text" (which is anything in the `captured text` section) needs to come first, we list it first. And since the text needs to be wrapped in `[` and `]`, we note those as the open and close.  Same goes for the `href` tag. Since that completes the entire tag, we actually leave the `open` and `close` for the `<a>` itself empty since it requires no additional tokens.

## Testing

```
git clone git@github.com:toddself/dr-sax
cd dr-sax
npm install
npm test
```

## License
Dr. Sax is ©2014 Todd Kennedy. Available for use under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
